## 18.4 Building and deploying WAR files

Throughout the course of this book, as you’ve developed the applications that make up the Taco Cloud application, you’ve run them either in the IDE or from the command line as an executable JAR file. In either case, an embedded Tomcat server (or Netty, in the case of Spring WebFlux applications) has always been there to serve requests to the application.

Thanks in large part to Spring Boot autoconfiguration, you’ve been spared from having to create a web.xml file or servlet initializer class to declare `Spring’s DispatcherServlet` for Spring MVC. But if you’re going to deploy the application to a Java application server, you’re going to need to build a WAR file. And, so that the application server will know how to run the application, you’ll also need to include a servlet initializer in that WAR file to play the part of a web.xml file and declare `DispatcherServlet`.

As it turns out, building a Spring Boot application into a WAR file isn’t all that difficult. In fact, if you chose the WAR option when creating the application through the Initializr, then there’s nothing more you need to do.

The Initializr ensures that the generated project will contain a servlet initializer class, and the build file will be geared to produce a WAR file. If, however, you chose to build a JAR file from the Initializr (or if you’re curious as to what the pertinent differences are), then read on.

First, you’ll need a way to configure Spring’s `DispatcherServlet`. Although this could be done with a web.xml file, Spring Boot makes this even easier with `SpringBootServletInitializr`. `SpringBootServletInitializer` is a special Spring Boot–aware implementation of Spring’s `WebApplicationInitializer`. Aside from configuring Spring’s `DispatcherServlet`, `SpringBootServletInitializer` also looks for any beans in the Spring application context that are of type `Filter`, `Servlet`, or `ServletContextInitializer` and binds them to the servlet container.

To use `SpringBootServletInitializer`, create a subclass and override the `configure()` method to specify the Spring configuration class. The next code listing shows `TacoCloudServletInitializer`, a subclass of `SpringBootServletInitializer` that you’ll use for the Taco Cloud application.

**Listing 18.1 Enabling Spring web applications via Java**
```java
package tacos;

import org.springframework.boot.builder.SpringApplicationBuilder;
import org.springframework.boot.context.web.SpringBootServletInitializer;

public class IngredientServiceServletInitializer
        extends SpringBootServletInitializer {
  @Override
  protected SpringApplicationBuilder configure(
                    SpringApplicationBuilder builder) {
    return builder.sources(IngredientServiceApplication.class);
  }
}
```

As you can see, the `configure()` method is given a `SpringApplicationBuilder` as a parameter and returns it as a result. In between, it calls the `sources()` method that registers Spring configuration classes. In this case, it registers only the `TacoCloudApplication` class, which serves the dual purpose of a bootstrap class (for executable JARs) and a Spring configuration class.

Even though the application has other Spring configuration classes, it’s not necessary to register them all with the `sources()` method. The `TacoCloudApplication` class, annotated with `@SpringBootApplication`, implicitly enables component scanning. Component scanning discovers and pulls in any other configuration classes that it finds.

For the most part, `SpringBootServletInitializer`’s subclass is boilerplate. It references the application’s main configuration class. But aside from that, it’ll be the same for every application where you’ll be building a WAR file. And you’ll almost never need to make any changes to it.

Now that you’ve written a servlet initializer class, you must make a few small changes to the project build. If you’re building with Maven, the change required is as simple as ensuring that the `<packaging>` element in pom.xml is set to war, as shown here:

```html
<packaging>war</packaging>
```

The changes required for a Gradle build are similarly straightforward. You must apply the war plugin in the build.gradle file as follows:

```yaml
apply plugin: 'war'
```

Now you’re ready to build the application. With Maven, you’ll use the Maven wrapper script that the Initializr used to execute the package goal like so:

```bash
$ mvnw package
```

If the build is successful, then the WAR file can be found in the target directory. On the other hand, if you were using Gradle to build the project, you’d use the Gradle wrapper to execute the build task as follows:

```bash
$ gradlew build
```

Once the build completes, the WAR file will be in the build/libs directory. All that’s left is to deploy the application. The deployment procedure varies across application servers, so consult the documentation for your application server’s specific deployment procedure.

It may be interesting to note that although you’ve built a WAR file suitable for deployment to any Servlet 3.0 (or higher) servlet container, the WAR file can still be executed at the command line as if it were an executable JAR file as follows:

```bash
$ java -jar target/taco-cloud-0.0.19-SNAPSHOT.war
```

In effect, you get two deployment options out of a single deployment artifact!


