### 3.1.1 Adapting the domain for persistence

When persisting objects to a database, it’s generally a good idea to have one field that uniquely identifies the object. Your `Ingredient` class already has an `id` field, but you need to add `id` fields to both `Taco` and `TacoOrder` as well.

Moreover, it might be useful to know when a `Taco` is created and when a `TacoOrder` is placed. You’ll also need to add a field to each object to capture the date and time that the objects are saved. The following listing shows the new id and createdAt fields needed in the Taco class.

**Listing 3.3 Adding ID and timestamp fields to the Taco class**

```java
@Data
public class Taco {
    
    private Long id;
    
    private Date createdAt;
    
    ...
}
```

Because you use Lombok to automatically generate accessor methods at run time, there’s no need to do anything more than declare the `id` and `createdAt` properties. They’ll have appropriate getter and setter methods as needed at run time. Similar changes are required in the `TacoOrder` class, as shown here:

```java
@Data
public class TacoOrder implements Serializable {

  private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;

  private Long id;

  private Date placedAt;  
  // ...
}
```

Again, Lombok automatically generates the accessor methods, so these are the only changes required in `TacoOrder`. If for some reason you choose not to use Lombok, you’ll need to write these methods yourself.

Your domain classes are now ready for persistence. Let’s see how to use `JdbcTemplate` to read and write them to a database. 




