### 7.3.1 GETting resources

Suppose that you want to fetch an ingredient from the Taco Cloud API. For that, you can use `RestTemplate’s getForObject()` to fetch the ingredient. For example, the following code uses `RestTemplate` to fetch an `Ingredient` object by its ID:

```java
public Ingredient getIngredientById(String ingredientId) {
  return rest.getForObject("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}",
                    Ingredient.class, ingredientId);
}
```

Here you’re using the `getForObject()` variant that accepts a `String` URL and uses a variable list for URL variables. The `ingredientId` parameter passed into `getForObject()` is used to fill in the `{id}` placeholder in the given URL. Although there’s only one URL variable in this example, it’s important to know that the variable parameters are assigned to the placeholders in the order that they’re given.

The second parameter to `getForObject()` is the type that the response should be bound to. In this case, the response data (that’s likely in JSON format) should be deserialized into an `Ingredient` object that will be returned.

Alternatively, you can use a Map to specify the URL variables, as shown next:

```java
public Ingredient getIngredientById(String ingredientId) {
  Map<String, String> urlVariables = new HashMap<>();
  urlVariables.put("id", ingredientId);
  return rest.getForObject("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}",
                  Ingredient.class, urlVariables);
}
```

In this case, the value of `ingredientId` is mapped to a key of `id`. When the request is made, the `{id}` placeholder is replaced by the map entry whose key is `id`.

Using a `URI` parameter is a bit more involved, requiring that you construct a `URI` object before calling `getForObject()`. Otherwise, it’s similar to both of the other variants, as shown here:

```java
public Ingredient getIngredientById(String ingredientId) {
  Map<String, String> urlVariables = new HashMap<>();
  urlVariables.put("id", ingredientId);
  URI url = UriComponentsBuilder
          .fromHttpUrl("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}")
          .build(urlVariables);
  return rest.getForObject(url, Ingredient.class);
}
```

Here the `URI` object is defined from a `String` specification, and its placeholders filled in from entries in a Map, much like the previous variant of `getForObject()`. The `getForObject()` method is a no-nonsense way of fetching a resource. But if the client needs more than the payload body, you may want to consider using `getForEntity()`.

`getForEntity()` works in much the same way as `getForObject()`, but instead of returning a domain object that represents the response’s payload, it returns a `ResponseEntity` object that wraps that domain object. The `ResponseEntity` gives access to additional response details,

For example, suppose that in addition to the ingredient data, you want to inspect the `Date` header from the response. With `getForEntity()` that becomes straightforward, as shown in the following code:

```java
public Ingredient getIngredientById(String ingredientId) {
  ResponseEntity<Ingredient> responseEntity =
    rest.getForEntity("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}",
              Ingredient.class, ingredientId);
  log.info("Fetched time: " +
              responseEntity.getHeaders().getDate());
  return responseEntity.getBody();
}
```

The `getForEntity()` method is overloaded with the same parameters as `getForObject()`, so you can provide the URL variables as a variable list parameter or call `getForEntity()` with a URI object.


