### 3.3.2 Annotating the domain as entities

As you’ve already seen with Spring Data JDBC, Spring Data does some amazing things when it comes to creating repositories. But unfortunately, it doesn’t help much when it comes to annotating your domain objects with JPA mapping annotations. You’ll need to open up the `Ingredient`, `Taco`, and `TacoOrder` classes and throw in a few annotations. First up is the `Ingredient` class, shown next.

**Listing 3.18 Annotating Ingredient for JPA persistence**
```java
package tacos;

import javax.persistence.Entity;
import javax.persistence.Id;

import lombok.AccessLevel;
import lombok.AllArgsConstructor;
import lombok.Data;
import lombok.NoArgsConstructor;

@Data
@Entity
@AllArgsConstructor
@NoArgsConstructor(access=AccessLevel.PRIVATE, force=true)
public class Ingredient {

  @Id
  private String id;
  private String name;
  private Type type;

  public static enum Type {
    WRAP, PROTEIN, VEGGIES, CHEESE, SAUCE
  }
}
```

To declare this as a JPA entity, Ingredient must be annotated with `@Entity`. And its id property must be annotated with `@Id` to designate it as the property that will uniquely identify the entity in the database. Note that this `@Id` annotation is the JPA variety from the javax.persistence package, as opposed to the `@Id` provided by Spring Data in the `org.springframework.data.annotation` package.

Also note that we no longer need the `@Table` annotation or need to implement `Persistable`. Although we could still use `@Table` here, it is unnecessary when working with JPA and defaults to the name of the class (`"Ingredient"`, in this case). As for `Persistable`, it was only necessary with Spring Data JDBC to determine whether or not an entity was to be created new, or to update an existing entity; JPA sorts that out automatically.

In addition to the JPA-specific annotations, you’ll also note that you’ve added a `@NoArgsConstructor` annotation at the class level. JPA requires that entities have a no-arguments constructor, so Lombok’s `@NoArgsConstructor` does that for you. You don’t want to be able to use it, though, so you make it private by setting the access attribute to `AccessLevel.PRIVATE`. And because you must set `final` properties, you also set the force attribute to true, which results in the Lombok-generated constructor setting them to a default value of `null`, 0, or `false`, depending on the property type.

You also will add an `@AllArgsConstructor` to make it easy to create an `Ingredient` object with all properties initialized.

You also need a `@RequiredArgsConstructor`. The `@Data` annotation implicitly adds a required arguments constructor, but when a `@NoArgsConstructor` is used, that constructor is removed. An explicit `@RequiredArgsConstructor` ensures that you’ll still have a required arguments constructor, in addition to the private noarguments constructor.

Now let’s move on to the Taco class and see how to annotate it as a JPA entity.

**Listing 3.19 Annotating Taco as an entity**

```java
package tacos;
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.Date;
import java.util.List;

import javax.persistence.Entity;
import javax.persistence.GeneratedValue;
import javax.persistence.GenerationType;
import javax.persistence.Id;
import javax.persistence.ManyToMany;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotNull;
import javax.validation.constraints.Size;

import lombok.Data;

@Data
@Entity
public class Taco {

  @Id
  @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.AUTO)
  private Long id;

  @NotNull
  @Size(min=5, message="Name must be at least 5 characters long")
  private String name;

  private Date createdAt = new Date();

  @Size(min=1, message="You must choose at least 1 ingredient")
  @ManyToMany()
  private List<Ingredient> ingredients = new ArrayList<>();

  public void addIngredient(Ingredient ingredient) {
    this.ingredients.add(ingredient);
  }
}
```

As with Ingredient, the Taco class is now annotated with `@Entity` and has its id property annotated with `@Id`. Because you’re relying on the database to automatically generate the ID value, you also annotate the `id` property with `@GeneratedValue`, specifying a `strategy` of `AUTO`.

To declare the relationship between a Taco and its associated `Ingredient` list, you annotate ingredients with `@ManyToMany`. A `Taco` can have many `Ingredient` objects, and an `Ingredient` can be a part of many Tacos.

Finally, let’s annotate the `TacoOrder` object as an entity. The next listing shows the new `TacoOrder` class.

**Listing 3.20 Annotating TacoOrder as a JPA entity**

```java
package tacos;
import java.io.Serializable;
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.Date;
import java.util.List;

import javax.persistence.CascadeType;
import javax.persistence.Entity;
import javax.persistence.GeneratedValue;
import javax.persistence.GenerationType;
import javax.persistence.Id;
import javax.persistence.OneToMany;
import javax.validation.constraints.Digits;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotBlank;
import javax.validation.constraints.Pattern;

import org.hibernate.validator.constraints.CreditCardNumber;

import lombok.Data;

@Data
@Entity
public class TacoOrder implements Serializable {

  private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;

  @Id
  @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.AUTO)
  private Long id;

  private Date placedAt = new Date();

  ...

  @OneToMany(cascade = CascadeType.ALL)
  private List<Taco> tacos = new ArrayList<>();

  public void addTaco(Taco taco) {
    this.tacos.add(taco);
  }
}
```

As you can see, the changes to `TacoOrder` closely mirror the changes to `Taco`. One significant thing worth noting is that the relationship to the list of `Taco` objects is annotated with `@OneToMany`, indicating that the tacos are all specific to this one order. Moreover, the cascade attribute is set to `CascadeType.ALL` so that if the order is deleted, its related tacos will also be deleted.



