### 12.4.4 Handling errors

All of the `WebClient` examples thus far have assumed a happy ending; there were no responses with 400-level or 500-level status codes. Should either kind of error statuses be returned, `WebClient` will log the failure and move on without incident.

If you need to handle such errors, then a call to `onStatus()` can be used to specify how various HTTP status codes should be dealt with. `onStatus()` accepts two functions: a predicate function, which is used to match the HTTP status, and a function that, given a `ClientResponse` object, returns a `Mono<Throwable>`.

To demonstrate how `onStatus()` can be used to create a custom error handler, consider the following use of `WebClient` that aims to fetch an ingredient given its ID:

```java
Mono<Ingredient> ingredientMono = webClient
  .get()
  .uri("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}", ingredientId)
  .retrieve()
  .bodyToMono(Ingredient.class);
```

As long as the value in `ingredientId` matches a known ingredient resource, then the resulting Mono will publish the `Ingredient` object when it’s subscribed to. But what would happen if there were no matching ingredient?

When subscribing to a Mono or Flux that might end in an error, it’s important to register an error consumer as well as a data consumer in the call to `subscribe()` as follows:

```java
ingredientMono.subscribe(
    ingredient -> {
    // handle the ingredient data
    ...
    },
    error-> {
    // deal with the error
    ...
    });
```

If the ingredient resource is found, then the first lambda (the data consumer) given to `subscribe()` is invoked with the matching `Ingredient` object. But if it isn’t found, then the request responds with a status code of HTTP 404 (NOT FOUND), which results in the second lambda (the error consumer) being given by default a `WebClientResponseException`.

The biggest problem with `WebClientResponseException` is that it’s rather nonspecific as to what may have gone wrong to cause the Mono to fail. Its name suggests that there was an error in the response from a request made by `WebClient`, but you’ll need to dig into `WebClientResponseException` to know what went wrong. And in any event, it would be nice if the exception given to the error consumer were more domain-specific instead of `WebClient`-specific.

By adding a custom error handler, you can provide code that translates a status code to a `Throwable` of your own choosing. Let’s say that you want a failed request for an ingredient resource to cause the Mono to complete in error with an `UnknownIngredientException`. You can add the following call to `onStatus()` after the call to `retrieve()` to achieve that:

```java
Mono<Ingredient> ingredientMono = webClient
  .get()
  .uri("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}", ingredientId)
  .retrieve()
  .onStatus(HttpStatus::is4xxClientError,
      response -> Mono.just(new UnknownIngredientException()))
  .bodyToMono(Ingredient.class);
```

The first argument in the `onStatus()` call is a predicate that’s given an `HttpStatus` and returns true if the status code is one you want to handle. And if the status code matches, then the response will be returned to the function in the second argument to handle as it sees fit, ultimately returning a `Mono` of type `Throwable`.

In the example, if the status code is a 400-level status code (e.g., a client error), then a `Mono` will be returned with an `UnknownIngredientException`. This causes the `ingredientMono` to fail with that exception.

Note that `HttpStatus::is4xxClientError` is a method reference to the `is4xxClientError` method of `HttpStatus`. It’s this method that will be invoked on the given HttpStatus object. If you want, you can use another method on `HttpStatus` as a method reference; or you can provide your own function in the form of a lambda or method reference that returns a boolean.

For example, you can get even more precise in your error handling, checking specifically for an HTTP 404 (NOT FOUND) status by changing the call to `onStatus()` to look like this:：

```java
Mono<Ingredient> ingredientMono = webClient
  .get()
  .uri("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}", ingredientId)
  .retrieve()
  .onStatus(status -> status == HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND,
      response -> Mono.just(new UnknownIngredientException()))
  .bodyToMono(Ingredient.class);
```

It’s also worth noting that you can have as many calls to `onStatus()` as you need to handle any variety of HTTP status codes that might come back in the response.

