### 12.4.5 Exchanging requests

Up to this point, you’ve used the `retrieve()` method to signify sending a request when working with WebClient. In those cases, the `retrieve()` method returned an object of type `ResponseSpec`, through which you were able to handle the response with calls to methods such as `onStatus()`, `bodyToFlux()`, and `bodyToMono()`. Working with `ResponseSpec` is fine for simple cases, but it’s limited in a few ways. If you need access to the response’s headers or cookie values, for example, then `ResponseSpec` isn’t going to work for you.

When `ResponseSpec` comes up short, you can try calling `exchangeToMono()` or `exchangeToFlux()` instead of `retrieve()`. The `exchangeToMono()` method returns a Mono of type `ClientResponse`, on which you can apply reactive operations to inspect and use data from the entire response, including the payload, headers, and cookies. The `exchangeToFlux()` method works much the same way but returns a `Flux` of type `ClientResponse` for working with multiple data items in the response.

Before we look at what makes `exchangeToMono()` and `exchangeToFlux()` different from `retrieve()`, let’s start by looking at how similar they are. The following snippet of code uses a WebClient and `exchangeToMono()` to fetch a single ingredient by the ingredient’s ID:

```java
Mono<Ingredient> ingredientMono = webClient
  .get()
  .uri("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}", ingredientId)
  .exchangeToMono(cr -> cr.bodyToMono(Ingredient.class));
```

This is roughly equivalent to the next example that uses retrieve():

```java
Mono<Ingredient> ingredientMono = webClient
  .get()
  .uri("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}", ingredientId)
  .retrieve()
  .bodyToMono(Ingredient.class);
```

In the `exchangeToMono()` example, rather than use the `ResponseSpec` object’s `bodyToMono()` to get a `Mono<Ingredient>`, you get a `Mono<ClientResponse>` on which you can apply a flat-mapping function to map the `ClientResponse` to a `Mono<Ingredient>`, which is flattened into the resulting Mono.

Let’s see what makes `exchangeToMono()` different from `retrieve()`. Let’s suppose that the response from the request might include a header named `X_UNAVAILABLE` with a value of true to indicate that (for some reason) the ingredient in question is unavailable. And for the sake of discussion, suppose that if that header exists, you want the resulting Mono to be empty—to not return anything. You can achieve this scenario by adding another call to `flatMap()`, but now it’s simpler with a `WebClient` call like this:

```java
Mono<Ingredient> ingredientMono = webClient
  .get()
  .uri("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}", ingredientId)
  .exchangeToMono(cr -> {
    if (cr.headers().header("X_UNAVAILABLE").contains("true")) {
      return Mono.empty();
    }
    return Mono.just(cr);
  })
  .flatMap(cr -> cr.bodyToMono(Ingredient.class));
```

The new `flatMap()` call inspects the given `ClientRequest` object’s headers, looking for a header named `X_UNAVAILABLE` with a value of `true`. If found, it returns an empty `Mono`. Otherwise, it returns a new `Mono` that contains the `ClientResponse`. In either event, the `Mono` returned will be flattened into the `Mono` that the next `flatMap()` call will operate on.


