### 10.1.3 Using Spring Integration's DSL configuration

Let’s take one more stab at defining the file-writing integration flow. This time, you’ll still define it in Java, but you’ll use Spring Integration’s Java DSL. Rather than declare an individual bean for each component in the flow, you’ll declare a single bean that defines the entire flow.

**Listing 10.4 Providing a fluent API for designing integration flows**
```java
package sia6;

import java.io.File;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;
import org.springframework.integration.dsl.IntegrationFlow;
import org.springframework.integration.dsl.IntegrationFlows;
import org.springframework.integration.dsl.MessageChannels;
import org.springframework.integration.file.dsl.Files;
import org.springframework.integration.file.support.FileExistsMode;

@Configuration
public class FileWriterIntegrationConfig {

  @Bean
  public IntegrationFlow fileWriterFlow() {
    return IntegrationFlows
      .from(MessageChannels.direct("textInChannel"))
      .<String, String>transform(t -> t.toUpperCase())
      .handle(Files
        .outboundAdapter(new File("/tmp/sia6/files"))
        .fileExistsMode(FileExistsMode.APPEND)
        .appendNewLine(true))
      .get();
  }
}
```

This new configuration is as terse as it can possibly be, capturing the entire flow in a single bean method. The `IntegrationFlows` class initiates the builder API, from which you can declare the flow.

In listing 10.4, you start by receiving messages from the channel named `textInChannel`, which then go to a transformer that uppercases the message payload. After the transformer, messages are handled by an outbound channel adapter created from the `Files` type provided in Spring Integration’s file module. Finally, a call to `get()` builds the `IntegrationFlow` to be returned. In short, this single bean method defines the same integration flow as the XML and Java configuration examples.

You’ll notice that, as with the Java configuration example, you don’t need to explicitly declare channel beans. Although you reference `textInChannel`, it’s automatically created by Spring Integration because there’s no existing channel bean with that name. But you can explicitly declare the channel bean if you want.

As for the channel that connects the transformer to the outbound channel adapter, you don’t even reference it by name. If there’s a need to explicitly configure the channel, you can reference it by name in the flow definition with a call to `channel()` as follows:

```java
@Bean
public IntegrationFlow fileWriterFlow() {
  return IntegrationFlows
    .from(MessageChannels.direct("textInChannel"))
    .<String, String>transform(t -> t.toUpperCase())
    .channel(MessageChannels.direct("FileWriterChannel"))
    .handle(Files
      .outboundAdapter(new File("/tmp/sia6/files"))
      .fileExistsMode(FileExistsMode.APPEND)
      .appendNewLine(true))
    .get();
}
```

One thing to keep in mind when working with Spring Integration’s Java DSL (as with any fluent API) is that you must employ whitespace shrewdly to maintain readability. In the example given here, I’ve been careful to indent lines to indicate blocks of related code. For even longer, more complex flows, you may even consider extracting portions of the flow into separate methods or subflows for better readability.

Now that you’ve seen a simple flow defined using three different configuration styles, let’s step back and take a look at Spring Integration’s big picture.


