### 10.1.2 Configuring integration flows in Java

Most modern Spring applications have eschewed XML configuration in favor of Java configuration. In fact, in Spring Boot applications, Java configuration is a natural style to complement autoconfiguration. Therefore, if you’re adding an integration flow to a Spring Boot application, it makes perfect sense to define the flow in Java.

As a sample of how to write an integration flow with Java configuration, take a look at the next listing. This shows the same file-writing integration flow as before, but this time it’s written in Java.

**Listing 10.3 Using Java configuration to define an integration flow**
```java
package sia6;

import java.io.File;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;
import org.springframework.integration.annotation.ServiceActivator;
import org.springframework.integration.annotation.Transformer;
import org.springframework.integration.file.FileWritingMessageHandler;
import org.springframework.integration.file.support.FileExistsMode;
import org.springframework.integration.transformer.GenericTransformer;

@Configuration
public class FileWriterIntegrationConfig {

  @Bean
  @Transformer(inputChannel="textInChannel",
            outputChannel="fileWriterChannel")

  public GenericTransformer<String, String> upperCaseTransformer() {
    return text -> text.toUpperCase();
  }

  @Bean
  @ServiceActivator(inputChannel="fileWriterChannel")
  public FileWritingMessageHandler fileWriter() {
    FileWritingMessageHandler handler =
        new FileWritingMessageHandler(new File("/tmp/sia6/files"));
    handler.setExpectReply(false);
    handler.setFileExistsMode(FileExistsMode.APPEND);
    handler.setAppendNewLine(true);
    return handler;
  }

}
```

With Java configuration, you declare two beans: a transformer and a file-writing message handler. The transformer is a `GenericTransformer`. Because `GenericTransformer` is a functional interface, you’re able to provide its implementation as a lambda that calls `toUpperCase()` on the message text. The transformer bean is annotated with `@Transformer`, designating it as a transformer in the integration flow that receives messages on a channel named `textInChannel` and writes messages to the channel named `fileWriterChannel`.

As for the file-writing bean, it’s annotated with `@ServiceActivator` to indicate that it’ll accept messages from `fileWriterChannel` and hand those messages over to the service defined by an instance of `FileWritingMessageHandler`. `FileWritingMessageHandler` is a message handler that writes a message payload to a file in a specified directory using a filename specified in the message’s “file_name” header. As with the XML example, `FileWritingMessageHandler` is configured to append to the file with a newline.

One thing unique about the configuration of the `FileWritingMessageHandler` bean is that there’s a call to `setExpectReply(false)` to indicate that the service activator shouldn’t expect a reply channel (a channel through which a value may be returned to upstream components in the flow). If you don’t call `setExpectReply (false)`, the file-writing bean defaults to `true`, and, although the pipeline still functions as expected, you’ll see a few errors logged stating that no reply channel was configured.

You’ll also notice that you didn’t need to explicitly declare the channels. The `textInChannel` and `fileWriterChannel` will be created automatically if no beans with those names exist. But if you want more control over how the channels are configured, you can explicitly construct them as beans like this:

```java
@Bean
public MessageChannel textInChannel() {
    return new DirectChannel();
}
...
@Bean
public MessageChannel fileWriterChannel() {
    return new DirectChannel();
}
```

The Java configuration option is arguably easier to read—and slightly briefer—and is certainly consistent with the Java-only configuration I’m shooting for in this book. But it can be made even more streamlined with Spring Integration’s Java DSL (domainspecific language) configuration style.

