### 3.2.3 Annotating the domain for persistence

The only other thing we’ll need to do is annotate our domain classes so that Spring Data JDBC will know how to persist them. Generally speaking, this means annotating the identity properties with `@Id`—so that Spring Data will know which field represents the object’s identity—and optionally annotating the class with `@Table`.

For example, the `TacoOrder` class might be annotated with `@Table` and `@Id` as shown in the following code.

**Listing 3.15 Preparing the Taco class for persistence**

```java
package tacos;
import java.io.Serializable;
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.Date;
import java.util.List;

import javax.validation.constraints.Digits;
import javax.validation.constraints.NotBlank;
import javax.validation.constraints.Pattern;

import org.hibernate.validator.constraints.CreditCardNumber;
import org.springframework.data.annotation.Id;
import org.springframework.data.relational.core.mapping.Table;

import lombok.Data;

@Data
@Table
public class TacoOrder implements Serializable {

  private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;

  @Id
  private Long id;

  // ...

}

```

The `@Table` annotation is completely optional. By default, the object is mapped to a table based on the domain class name. In this case, `TacoOrder` is mapped to a table named `"Taco_Order"`. If that’s fine for you, then you can leave the `@Table` annotation off completely or use it without parameters. But if you’d prefer to map it to a different table name, then you can specify the table name as a parameter to `@Table` like this:

```java
@Table("Taco_Cloud_Order")
public class TacoOrder {
  ...
}
```

As shown here, `TacoOrder` will be mapped to a table named `"Taco_Cloud_Order"`.

As for the `@Id` annotation, it designates the id property as being the identity for a `TacoOrder`. All other properties in `TacoOrder` will be mapped automatically to columns based on their property names. For example, the `deliveryName` property will be automatically mapped to the column named `delivery_name`. But if you want to explicitly define the column name mapping, you could annotate the property with `@Column` like this:

```java
@Column("customer_name")
@NotBlank(message="Delivery name is required")
private String deliveryName;
```

In this case, `@Column` is specifying that the deliveryName property will be mapped to the column whose name is `customer_name`.

You’ll also need to apply `@Table` and `@Id` to the other domain classes. This includes @Ingredient.

**Listing 3.16 Preparing the Ingredient class for persistence**
```java
package tacos;

import org.springframework.data.annotation.Id;
import org.springframework.data.domain.Persistable;
import org.springframework.data.relational.core.mapping.Table;

import lombok.AccessLevel;
import lombok.AllArgsConstructor;
import lombok.Data;
import lombok.NoArgsConstructor;

@Data
@Table
@AllArgsConstructor
@NoArgsConstructor(access=AccessLevel.PRIVATE, force=true)
public class Ingredient implements Persistable<String> {

  @Id
  private String id;

  // ...

}
```

...adn Taco.

**Listing 3.17 Preparing the Taco class for persistence**
```java
package tacos;
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.Date;
import java.util.List;

import javax.validation.constraints.NotNull;
import javax.validation.constraints.Size;

import org.springframework.data.annotation.Id;
import org.springframework.data.relational.core.mapping.Table;

import lombok.Data;

@Data
@Table
public class Taco {

  @Id
  private Long id;

  // ...

}
```

As for `IngredientRef`, it will be mapped automatically to the table whose name is `"Ingredient_Ref"`, which is perfect for our application. You can annotate it with `@Table` if you want, but it’s not necessary. And the `"Ingredient_Ref"` table has no identity column, so there is no need to annotate anything in `IngredientRef` with `@Id`.

With these small changes, not to mention the complete removal of the `JdbcIngredientRepository` and `JdbcOrderRepository` classes, you now have a lot less persistence code. Even so, the repository implementations that are generated at runtime by Spring Data still do everything that the repositories using `JdbcTemplate` did. In fact, they have potential for doing even more, because the two repository interfaces extend `CrudRepository`, which offers a dozen or so operations for creating, reading, updating, and deleting objects.

