## 5.5 Knowing your user

Often, it’s not enough to simply know that the user has logged in and what permissions they have been granted. It’s usually important to also know who they are, so that you can tailor their experience.

For example, in `OrderController`, when you initially create the `TacoOrder` object that’s bound to the order form, it’d be nice if you could prepopulate the `TacoOrder` with the user’s name and address, so they don’t have to reenter it for each order. Perhaps even more important, when you save their order, you should associate the `TacoOrder` entity with the `User` that created the order.

To achieve the desired connection between an `TacoOrder` entity and a `User` entity, you need to add the following new property to the `TacoOrder` class:

```java
@Data
@Entity
@Table(name="Taco_Order")
public class TacoOrder implements Serializable {

...

  @ManyToOne
  private User user;
  
...
}
```

The `@ManyToOne` annotation on this property indicates that an order belongs to a single user and, conversely, that a user may have many orders. (Because you’re using Lombok, you won’t need to explicitly define accessor methods for the property.)

In `OrderController`, the `processOrder()` method is responsible for saving an order. It will need to be modified to determine who the authenticated user is and to call `setUser()` on the `TacoOrder` object to connect the order with the user.

We have several ways to determine who the user is. A few of the most common ways follow:

* Inject a `java.security.Principal` object into the controller method.
* Inject an `org.springframework.security.core.Authentication` object into the controller method.
* Use `org.springframework.security.core.context.SecurityContextHolder` to get at the security context.
* Inject an `@AuthenticationPrincipal` annotated method parameter. (`@AuthenticationPrincipal` is from Spring Security’s `org.springframework.security.core.annotation` package.)

For example, you could modify `processOrder()` to accept a `java.security.Principal` as a parameter. You could then use the principal name to look up the user from a `UserRepository` as follows:

```java
@PostMapping
public String processOrder(@Valid TacoOrder order, Errors errors,
    SessionStatus sessionStatus,
    Principal principal) {

...

  User user = userRepository.findByUsername(
            principal.getName());
  order.setUser(user);

...

}
```

This works fine, but it litters code that’s otherwise unrelated to security with security code. You can trim down some of the security-specific code by modifying `processOrder()` to accept an `Authentication` object as a parameter instead of a `Principal`, as shown next:

```java
@PostMapping
public String processOrder(@Valid TacoOrder order, Errors errors,
    SessionStatus sessionStatus,
    Authentication authentication) {

...

  User user = (User) authentication.getPrincipal();
  order.setUser(user);

...

}
```

With the `Authentication` in hand, you can call `getPrincipal()` to get the principal object which, in this case, is a `User`. Note that `getPrincipal()` returns a `java.util.Object`, so you need to cast it to User.

Perhaps the cleanest solution of all, however, is to simply accept a `User` object in `processOrder()` but annotate it with `@AuthenticationPrincipal` so that it will be the authentication’s principal, as follows:

```java
@PostMapping
public String processOrder(@Valid TacoOrder order, Errors errors,
    SessionStatus sessionStatus,
    @AuthenticationPrincipal User user) {

  if (errors.hasErrors()) {
  return "orderForm";
  }

  order.setUser(user);

  orderRepo.save(order);
  sessionStatus.setComplete();

  return "redirect:/";
}
```

What’s nice about `@AuthenticationPrincipal` is that it doesn’t require a cast (as with `Authentication`), and it limits the security-specific code to the annotation itself. By the time you get the User object in `processOrder()`, it’s ready to be used and assigned to the `TacoOrder`.

There’s one other way of identifying who the authenticated user is, although it’s a bit messy in the sense that it’s very heavy with security-specific code. You can obtain an Authentication object from the security context and then request its principal like this:

```java
Authentication authentication =
    SecurityContextHolder.getContext().getAuthentication();
User user = (User) authentication.getPrincipal();
```

Although this snippet is thick with security-specific code, it has one advantage over the other approaches described: it can be used anywhere in the application, not just in a controller’s handler methods. This makes it suitable for use in lower levels of the code.
