### 7.1.2 Sending data to the server

So far your API is able to return up to a dozen of the most recently created tacos. But how do those tacos get created in the first place?

Although you could use a `CommandLineRunner` bean to preload the database with some test taco data, ultimately taco data will come from users when they craft their taco creations. Therefore, we’ll need to write a method in `TacoController` that handles requests containing taco designs and save them to the database. By adding the following `postTaco()` method to `TacoController`, you enable the controller to do exactly that:

```java
@PostMapping(consumes="application/json")
@ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.CREATED)
public Taco postTaco(@RequestBody Taco taco) {
  return tacoRepo.save(taco);
}
```

Because `postTaco()` will handle an HTTP `POST` request, it’s annotated with `@PostMapping` instead of `@GetMapping`. You’re not specifying a path attribute here, so the `postTaco()` method will handle requests for /api/tacos as specified in the class-level `@RequestMapping` on `TacoController`.

You do set the `consumes` attribute, however. The `consumes` attribute is to request input what `produces` is to request output. Here you use `consumes` to say that the method will only handle requests whose `Content-type` matches `application/json`.

The method’s `Taco` parameter is annotated with `@RequestBody` to indicate that the body of the request should be converted to a `Taco` object and bound to the parameter. This annotation is important—without it, Spring MVC would assume that you want request parameters (either query parameters or form parameters) to be bound to the `Taco` object. But the `@RequestBody` annotation ensures that JSON in the request body is bound to the `Taco` object instead.

Once `postTaco()` has received the `Taco` object, it passes it to the `save()` method on the `TacoRepository`.

You may have also noticed that I’ve annotated the `postTaco()` method with `@ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.CREATED)`. Under normal circumstances (when no exceptions are thrown), all responses will have an HTTP status code of 200 (OK), indicating that the request was successful. Although an HTTP 200 response is always welcome, it’s not always descriptive enough. In the case of a `POST` request, an HTTP status of 201 (CREATED) is more descriptive. It tells the client that not only was the request successful but a resource was created as a result. It’s always a good idea to use `@ResponseStatus` where appropriate to communicate the most descriptive and accurate HTTP status code to the client.

Although you’ve used `@PostMapping` to create a new `Taco` resource, `POST` requests can also be used to update resources. Even so, `POST` requests are typically used for resource creation, and `PUT` and `PATCH` requests are used to update resources. Let’s see how you can update data using `@PutMapping` and `@PatchMapping`.


