### 9.1.2 Sending messages with JmsTemplate

With a JMS starter dependency (either Artemis or ActiveMQ) in your build, Spring
Boot will autoconfigure a JmsTemplate (among other things) that you can inject and
use to send and receive messages.

JmsTemplate is the centerpiece of Spring’s JMS integration support. Much like
Spring’s other template-oriented components, JmsTemplate eliminates a lot of boilerplate code that would otherwise be required to work with JMS. Without JmsTemplate,
you’d need to write code to create a connection and session with the message broker
and more code to deal with any exceptions that might be thrown in the course of sending a message. JmsTemplate focuses on what you really want to do: send a message.

JmsTemplate has several methods that are useful for sending messages, including
the following:

```java
// Send raw messages
void send(MessageCreator messageCreator) throws JmsException;
void send(Destination destination, MessageCreator messageCreator)
                            throws JmsException;
void send(String destinationName, MessageCreator messageCreator)
                            throws JmsException;
// Send messages converted from objects
void convertAndSend(Object message) throws JmsException;
void convertAndSend(Destination destination, Object message)
                            throws JmsException;
void convertAndSend(String destinationName, Object message)
                            throws JmsException;
// Send messages converted from objects with post-processing
void convertAndSend(Object message,
                MessagePostProcessor postProcessor) throws JmsException;
void convertAndSend(Destination destination, Object message,
                MessagePostProcessor postProcessor) throws JmsException;
void convertAndSend(String destinationName, Object message,
                MessagePostProcessor postProcessor) throws JmsException;
```

As you can see, there are really only two methods, send() and convertAndSend(), each overridden to support different parameters. And if you look closer, you’ll notice that the various forms of convertAndSend() can be broken into two subcategories. In trying to understand what all of these methods do, consider the following breakdown:

* Three send() methods require a MessageCreator to manufacture a Message object.
* Three convertAndSend() methods accept an Object and automatically convert that Object into a Message behind the scenes.
* Three convertAndSend() methods automatically convert an Object to a Message but also accept a MessagePostProcessor to allow for customization of the Message before it’s sent.

Moreover, each of these three method categories is composed of three overriding methods that are distinguished by how the JMS destination (queue or topic) is specified, as follows:

* One method accepts no destination parameter and sends the message to a default destination.
* One method accepts a Destination object that specifies the destination for the message.
* One method accepts a String that specifies the destination for the message by name.

Putting these methods to work, consider JmsOrderMessagingService in the next listing, which uses the most basic form of the send() method.

**Listing 9.1 Sending an order with .send() to a default destination**
```java
package tacos.messaging;
import javax.jms.JMSException;
import javax.jms.Message;
import javax.jms.Session;

import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.jms.core.JmsTemplate;
import org.springframework.jms.core.MessageCreator;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;


@Service
public class JmsOrderMessagingService implements OrderMessagingService {
  private JmsTemplate jms;

  @Autowired
  public JmsOrderMessagingService(JmsTemplate jms) {
    this.jms = jms;
  }

  @Override
  public void sendOrder(TacoOrder order) {
    jms.send(new MessageCreator() {
      @Override
      public Message createMessage(Session session)
        throws JMSException {
          return session.createObjectMessage(order);
        }
      }
    );
  }
}
```

The sendOrder() method calls jms.send(), passing in an anonymous inner-class implementation of MessageCreator. That implementation overrides createMessage() to create a new object message from the given TacoOrder object.

Because the JMS-specific JmsOrderMessagingService implements the more generic
OrderMessagingService interface, we can put this service to work by injecting it into
the OrderApiController and calling sendOrder() when an order is created, as shown
here:

```java
@RestController
@RequestMapping(path="/api/orders",
        produces="application/json")
@CrossOrigin(origins="*")
public class OrderApiController {

private OrderRepository repo;
private OrderMessagingService messageService;

  public OrderApiController(
            OrderRepository repo,
            OrderMessagingService messageService) {
    this.repo = repo;
    this.messageService = messageService;
  }

  @PostMapping(consumes="application/json")
  @ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.CREATED)
  public TacoOrder postOrder(@RequestBody TacoOrder order) {
    messageService.sendOrder(order);
    return repo.save(order);
  }

  ...

}
```

Now when you create an order through the Taco Cloud website, a message should be sent to the broker for routing to another application that will receive the order. We don’t yet have anything to receive that message, though. Even so, you can use the Artemis console to view the contents of the queue. See the Artemis documentation at [https://activemq.apache.org/components/artemis/documentation/latest/management-console.html](https://activemq.apache.org/components/artemis/documentation/latest/management-console.html) for details on how to do this.

I’m not sure about you, but I think the code in listing 9.1, although straightforward, is a bit clumsy. The ceremony involved in declaring an anonymous inner class complicates an otherwise simple method call. Recognizing that MessageCreator is a functional interface, you can tidy up the sendOrder() method a bit with a lambda, as shown next:

```java
@Override
public void sendOrder(TacoOrder order) {
  jms.send(session -> session.createObjectMessage(order));
}
```

But notice that the call to jms.send() doesn’t specify a destination. For this to work, you must also specify a default destination name with the spring.jms.template.default-destination property. For example, you could set the property in your application.yml file like this:

```yaml
spring:
  jms:
    template:
      default-destination: tacocloud.order.queue
```

In many cases, using a default destination is the easiest choice. It lets you specify the destination name once, allowing the code to be concerned only with sending messages, without regard for where they’re being sent. But if you ever need to send a message to a destination other than the default destination, you’ll need to specify that destination as a parameter to send().

One way of doing that is by passing a Destination object as the first parameter to send(). The easiest way to do this is to declare a Destination bean and then inject it into the bean that performs messaging. For example, the following bean declares the Taco Cloud order queue Destination:

```java
@Bean
public Destination orderQueue() {
    return new ActiveMQQueue("tacocloud.order.queue");
}
```

This bean method can be added to any configuration class in the application that will be sending or receiving messages via JMS. For the sake of organization, it’s best to add it to a configuration class designated for messaging configuration, such as MessagingConfig.

It’s important to note that the ActiveMQQueue used here is actually from Artemis (from the org.apache.activemq.artemis.jms.client package). If you’re using ActiveMQ (not Artemis), there’s also a class named ActiveMQQueue (from the org.apache.activemq.command package).

If this Destination bean is injected into JmsOrderMessagingService, you can use it to specify the destination when calling send() as follows:

```java
private Destination orderQueue;

@Autowired
public JmsOrderMessagingService(JmsTemplate jms,
            Destination orderQueue) {
  this.jms = jms;
  this.orderQueue = orderQueue;
}

...

@Override
public void sendOrder(TacoOrder order) {
  jms.send(
    orderQueue,
    session -> session.createObjectMessage(order));
}
```

Specifying the destination with a Destination object like this affords you the opportunity to configure the Destination with more than just the destination name. But in practice, you’ll almost never specify anything more than the destination name. It’s often easier to just send the name as the first parameter to send(), as shown here:

```java
@Override
public void sendOrder(TacoOrder order) {
  jms.send(
    "tacocloud.order.queue",
    session -> session.createObjectMessage(order));
}
```

Although the send() method isn’t particularly difficult to use (especially when the MessageCreator is given as a lambda), a sliver of complexity is added by requiring that you provide a MessageCreator. Wouldn’t it be simpler if you needed to specify only the object that’s to be sent (and optionally the destination)? That describes succinctly how convertAndSend() works. Let’s take a look.

#### CONVERTING MESSAGES BEFORE SENDING

The JmsTemplatesconvertAndSend() method simplifies message publication by eliminating the need to provide a MessageCreator. Instead, you pass the object that’s to be sent directly to convertAndSend(), and the object will be converted into a Message before being sent.

For example, the following reimplementation of sendOrder() uses convertAndSend() to send a TacoOrder to a named destination:

```java
@Override
public void sendOrder(TacoOrder order) {
  jms.convertAndSend("tacocloud.order.queue", order);
}
```

Just like the send() method, convertAndSend() will accept either a Destination or String value to specify the destination, or you can leave out the destination altogether to send the message to the default destination.

Whichever form of convertAndSend() you choose, the TacoOrder passed into convertAndSend() is converted into a Message before it’s sent. Under the covers, this is achieved with an implementation of MessageConverter that does the dirty work of converting application domain objects to Message objects.

#### CONFIGURING A MESSAGE CONVERTER

MessageConverter is a Spring-defined interface that has only the following two methods to be implemented:

```java
public interface MessageConverter {
  Message toMessage(Object object, Session session)
            throws JMSException, MessageConversionException;
  Object fromMessage(Message message)
}
```

Although this interface is simple enough to implement, you often won’t need to create a custom implementation. Spring already offers a handful of implementations, such as those described in table 9.3.

**Table 9.3 Spring message converters for common conversion tasks (all in the org.springframework.jms.support.converter package)**

| Message converter | What it does |
| :--- | :--- |
| MappingJackson2MessageConverter | Uses the Jackson 2 JSON library to convert messages toand from JSON |
| MarshallingMessageConverter | Uses JAXB to convert messages to and from XML |
| MessagingMessageConverter | Converts a Message from the messaging abstraction to and from a Message using an underlying MessageConverter for the payload and a JmsHeaderMapper to map the JMS headers to and from standard message headers |
| SimpleMessageConverter | Converts a String to and from a TextMessage, byte arrays to and from a BytesMessage, a Map to and from a MapMessage, and a Serializable to and from an ObjectMessage |

SimpleMessageConverter is the default, but it requires that the object being sent implement Serializable. This may be a good idea, but you may prefer to use one of the other message converters, such as MappingJackson2MessageConverter, to avoid that restriction.

To apply a different message converter, all you must do is declare an instance of the chosen converter as a bean. For example, the following bean declaration will enable MappingJackson2MessageConverter to be used instead of SimpleMessageConverter:

```java
@Bean
public MappingJackson2MessageConverter messageConverter() {
  MappingJackson2MessageConverter messageConverter =
                  new MappingJackson2MessageConverter();
  messageConverter.setTypeIdPropertyName("_typeId");
  return messageConverter;
}
```

This bean method can be placed in any configuration class in the application that sends and receives messages with JMS, including alongside the Destination bean in MessagingConfig.

Notice that you called setTypeIdPropertyName() on the MappingJackson2-MessageConverter before returning it. This is very important, because it enables the receiver to know what type to convert an incoming message to. By default, it will contain the fully qualified classname of the type being converted. But this method is somewhat inflexible, requiring that the receiver also have the same type, with the same fully qualified classname.

To allow for more flexibility, you can map a synthetic type name to the actual type by calling setTypeIdMappings() on the message converter. For example, the following change to the message converter bean method maps a synthetic TacoOrder type ID to the TacoOrder class:

```java
@Bean
public MappingJackson2MessageConverter messageConverter() {
  MappingJackson2MessageConverter messageConverter =
                new MappingJackson2MessageConverter();
  messageConverter.setTypeIdPropertyName("_typeId");

  Map<String, Class<?>> typeIdMappings = new HashMap<String, Class<?>>();
  typeIdMappings.put("order", TacoOrder.class);
  messageConverter.setTypeIdMappings(typeIdMappings);

  return messageConverter;
  }
```

Instead of the fully qualified classname being sent in the message’s _typeId property, the value TacoOrder will be sent. In the receiving application, a similar message converter will have been configured, mapping TacoOrder to its own understanding of what an order is. That implementation of an order may be in a different package, have a different name, and even have a subset of the sender’s TacoOrder properties.

#### POSTPROCESSING MESSAGES

Let’s suppose that in addition to its lucrative web business, Taco Cloud has decided to open a few brick-and-mortar taco joints. Given that any of their restaurants could also be a fulfillment center for the web business, they need a way to communicate the source of an order to the kitchens at the restaurants. This will enable the kitchen staff to employ a different process for store orders than for web orders.

It would be reasonable to add a new source property to the TacoOrder object to carry this information, populating it with WEB for orders placed online and with STORE for orders placed in the stores. But that would require a change to both the website’s TacoOrder class and the kitchen application’s TacoOrder class when, in reality, it’s information that’s required only for the taco preparers.

An easier solution would be to add a custom header to the message to carry the order’s source. If you were using the send() method to send the taco orders, this could easily be accomplished by calling setStringProperty() on the Message object as follows:

```java
jms.send("tacocloud.order.queue",
  session -> {
    Message message = session.createObjectMessage(order);
    message.setStringProperty("X_ORDER_SOURCE", "WEB");
  });
```

The problem here is that you aren’t using send(). By choosing to use convertAndSend(), the Message object is created under the covers, and you don’t have access to it.

Fortunately, you have a way to tweak a Message created under the covers before it’s sent. By passing in a MessagePostProcessor as the final parameter to convertAndSend(), you can do whatever you want with the Message after it has been created. The following code still uses convertAndSend(), but it also uses a MessagePostProcessor to add the X_ORDER_SOURCE header before the message is sent:

```java
jms.convertAndSend("tacocloud.order.queue", order, new MessagePostProcessor() {
  @Override
  public Message postProcessMessage(Message message) throws JMSException {
    message.setStringProperty("X_ORDER_SOURCE", "WEB");
    return message;
  }
});
```

You may have noticed that MessagePostProcessor is a functional interface. This means that you can simplify it a bit by replacing the anonymous inner class with a lambda as shown here:

```java
jms.convertAndSend("tacocloud.order.queue", order,
  message -> {
    message.setStringProperty("X_ORDER_SOURCE", "WEB");
    return message;
  });
```

Although you need this particular MessagePostProcessor for only this one call to convertAndSend(), you may find yourself using the same MessagePostProcessor for several different calls to convertAndSend(). In those cases, perhaps a method reference, shown next, is a better choice than a lambda, avoiding unnecessary code duplication:

```java
@GetMapping("/convertAndSend/order")
public String convertAndSendOrder() {
  TacoOrder order = buildOrder();
  jms.convertAndSend("tacocloud.order.queue", order,
        this::addOrderSource);
  return "Convert and sent order";
}

private Message addOrderSource(Message message) throws JMSException {
  message.setStringProperty("X_ORDER_SOURCE", "WEB");
  return message;
}
```

You’ve now seen several ways of sending messages. But it does no good to send a message if nobody ever receives it. Let’s look at how you can receive messages with Spring JMS.

