### 9.1.3 Receiving JMS messages

When it comes to consuming messages, you have the choice of a pull model, where your code requests a message and waits until one arrives, or a push model, in which messages are handed to your code as they become available.

JmsTemplate offers several methods for receiving messages, but all of them use a pull model. You call one of those methods to request a message, and the thread is blocked until a message is available (which could be immediately or it might take a while).

On the other hand, you also have the option of using a push model, wherein you define a message listener that’s invoked any time a message is available.

Both options are suitable for a variety of use cases. It’s generally accepted that the push model is the best choice, because it doesn’t block a thread. But in some use cases, a listener could be overburdened if messages arrive too quickly. The pull model enables a consumer to declare that they’re ready to process a new message.

Let’s look at both ways of receiving messages. We’ll start with the pull model offered by JmsTemplate.

**RECEIVING WITH JMSTEMPLATE**

JmsTemplate offers several methods for pulling methods from the broker, including the following:

```java
Message receive() throws JmsException;
Message receive(Destination destination) throws JmsException;
Message receive(String destinationName) throws JmsException;

Object receiveAndConvert() throws JmsException;
Object receiveAndConvert(Destination destination) throws JmsException;
Object receiveAndConvert(String destinationName) throws JmsException;
```

As you can see, these six methods mirror the send() and convertAndSend() methods from JmsTemplate. The receive() methods receive a raw Message, whereas the receiveAndConvert() methods use a configured message converter to convert messages into domain types. And for each of these, you can specify either a Destination or a String containing the destination name, or you can pull a message from the default destination.

To see these in action, you’ll write some code that pulls an TacoOrder from the tacocloud.order.queue destination. The following listing shows OrderReceiver, a service component that receives order data using JmsTemplate.receive().

**Listing 9.2 Pulling orders from a queue**
```java
package tacos.kitchen.messaging.jms;
import javax.jms.Message;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.jms.core.JmsTemplate;
import org.springframework.jms.support.converter.MessageConverter;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class JmsOrderReceiver implements OrderReceiver {
  private JmsTemplate jms;
  private MessageConverter converter;

  @Autowired
  public JmsOrderReceiver(JmsTemplate jms, MessageConverter converter) {
    this.jms = jms;
    this.converter = converter;
  }
  public TacoOrder receiveOrder() {
    Message message = jms.receive("tacocloud.order.queue");
    return (TacoOrder) converter.fromMessage(message);
  }
}
```

Here you’ve used a String to specify the destination from which to pull an order. The receive() method returns an unconverted Message. But what you really need is the TacoOrder that’s inside of the Message, so the very next thing that happens is that you use an injected message converter to convert the message. The type ID property in the message will guide the converter in converting it to a TacoOrder, but it’s returned as an Object that requires casting before you can return it.

Receiving a raw Message object might be useful in some cases where you need to inspect the message’s properties and headers. But often you need only the payload. Converting that payload to a domain type is a two-step process and requires that the message converter be injected into the component. When you care only about the message’s payload, receiveAndConvert() is a lot simpler. The next listing shows how JmsOrderReceiver could be reworked to use receiveAndConvert() instead of receive().

**Listing 9.3 Receiving an already-converted TacoOrder object**
```java
package tacos.kitchen.messaging.jms;

import org.springframework.jms.core.JmsTemplate;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;
import tacos.TacoOrder;
import tacos.kitchen.OrderReceiver;

@Component
public class JmsOrderReceiver implements OrderReceiver {

  private JmsTemplate jms;

  public JmsOrderReceiver(JmsTemplate jms) {
    this.jms = jms;
  }

  @Override
  public TacoOrder receiveOrder() {
    return (TacoOrder) jms.receiveAndConvert("tacocloud.order.queue");
  }
}
```

This new version of JmsOrderReceiver has a receiveOrder() method that has been reduced to only one line. Plus, you no longer need to inject a MessageConverter, because all of the message conversion will be done behind the scenes in receiveAndConvert().

Before moving on, let’s consider how receiveOrder() might be used in the Taco Cloud kitchen application. A food preparer at one of Taco Cloud’s kitchens might push a button or take some action to indicate that they’re ready to start building tacos. At that point, receiveOrder() would be invoked and the call to receive() or receiveAndConvert() would block. Nothing else would happen until an order message is ready. Once an order arrives, it will be returned from receiveOrder(), and its information will be used to display the details of the order for the food preparer to get to work. This seems like a natural choice for a pull model.

Now let’s see how a push model works by declaring a JMS listener.

#### DECLARING MESSAGE LISTENERS

Unlike the pull model, where an explicit call to receive() or receiveAndConvert() was required to receive a message, a message listener is a passive component that’s idle until a message arrives.

To create a message listener that reacts to JMS messages, you simply annotate a method in a component with @JmsListener. The next listing shows a new OrderListener component that listens passively for messages, rather than actively requesting them.

**Listing 9.4 An OrderListener component that listens for orders**
```java
package tacos.kitchen.messaging.jms.listener;

import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Profile;
import org.springframework.jms.annotation.JmsListener;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

import tacos.TacoOrder;
import tacos.kitchen.KitchenUI;

@Profile("jms-listener")
@Component
public class OrderListener {

  private KitchenUI ui;

  @Autowired
  public OrderListener(KitchenUI ui) {
    this.ui = ui;
  }

  @JmsListener(destination = "tacocloud.order.queue")
  public void receiveOrder(TacoOrder order) {
    ui.displayOrder(order);
  }
}
```

The receiveOrder() method is annotated with JmsListener to “listen” for messages on the tacocloud.order.queue destination. It doesn’t deal with JmsTemplate, nor is it explicitly invoked by your application code. Instead, framework code within Spring waits for messages to arrive on the specified destination, and when they arrive, the receiveOrder() method is invoked automatically with the message’s TacoOrder payload as a parameter.

In many ways, the @JmsListener annotation is like one of Spring MVC’s request mapping annotations, such as @GetMapping or @PostMapping. In Spring MVC, methods annotated with one of the request mapping methods react to requests to a specified path. Similarly, methods that are annotated with @JmsListener react to messages that arrive in a destination.

Message listeners are often touted as the best choice because they don’t block and are able to handle multiple messages quickly. In the context of the Taco Cloud application, however, perhaps they aren’t the best choice. The food preparers are a significant bottleneck in the system and may not be able to prepare tacos as quickly as orders come in. A food preparer may have half-fulfilled an order when a new order is displayed on the screen. The kitchen user interface would need to buffer the orders as they arrive to avoid overburdening the kitchen staff.

That’s not to say that message listeners are bad. On the contrary, they’re a perfect fit when messages can be handled quickly. But when the message handlers need to be able to ask for more messages on their own timing, the pull model offered by JmsTemplate seems more fitting.

Because JMS is defined by a standard Java specification and supported by many message broker implementations, it’s a common choice for messaging in Java. But JMS has a few shortcomings, not the least of which is that as a Java specification, its use is limited to Java applications. Newer messaging options such as RabbitMQ and Kafka address these shortcomings and are available for other languages and platforms beyond the JVM. Let’s set JMS aside and see how you could have implemented your taco order messaging with RabbitMQ.

