### 1.3.1 Handling web requests

Spring comes with a powerful web framework known as Spring MVC. At the center of Spring MVC is the concept of a controller, a class that handles requests and responds with information of some sort. In the case of a browser-facing application, a controller responds by optionally populating model data and passing the request on to a view to
produce HTML that’s returned to the browser.

You’re going to learn a lot about Spring MVC in chapter 2. But for now, you’ll write a simple controller class that handles requests for the root path (for example, /) and forwards those requests to the home page view without populating any model data. The following listing shows the simple controller class.

**Listing 1.4 The home page controller**

```java
package tacos;

import org.springframework.stereotype.Controller;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
​
@Controller
public class HomeController {

  @GetMapping("/")
  public String home() {
      return "home";
  }
}
```

As you can see, this class is annotated with `@Controller`. On its own, `@Controller` doesn’t do much. Its primary purpose is to identify this class as a component for component scanning. Because `HomeController` is annotated with `@Controller`, Spring’s component scanning automatically discovers it and creates an instance of HomeController as a bean in the Spring application context.

In fact, a handful of other annotations （including `@Component`, `@Service`, and `@Repository`）serve a purpose similar to `@Controller`. You could have just as effectively annotated `HomeController` with any of those other annotations, and it would have still worked the same. The choice of `@Controller` is, however, more descriptive of this component’s role in the application.

The `home()` method is as simple as controller methods come. It’s annotated with `@GetMapping`  to indicate that if an HTTP GET request is received for the root path `/`, then this method should handle that request. It does so by doing nothing more than returning a `String` value of `home`. 

This value is interpreted as the logical name of a view. How that view is implemented depends on a few factors, but because Thymeleaf is in your classpath, you can define that template with Thymeleaf.

>**Why Thymeleaf?**
>
>You may be wondering why I chose Thymeleaf for a template engine. Why not JSP? Why not FreeMarker? Why not one of several other options?
>
>Put simply, I had to choose something, and I like Thymeleaf and generally prefer it over those other options. And even though JSP may seem like an obvious choice, there are some challenges to overcome when using JSP with Spring Boot. I didn’t want to go down that rabbit hole in chapter 1. Hang tight. We’ll look at other template options, including JSP, in chapter 2.

The template name is derived from the logical view name by prefixing it with /templates/ and postfixing it with .html. The resulting path for the template is /templates/home html. Therefore, you’ll need to place the template in your project at /src/main/resources/templates/home.html. Let’s create that template now.

