## 12.2 Defining functional request handlers

Spring MVC’s annotation-based programming model has been around since Spring 2.5 and is widely popular. It comes with a few downsides, however.

First, any annotation-based programming involves a split in the definition of what the annotation is supposed to do and how it’s supposed to do it. Annotations themselves define the what; the how is defined elsewhere in the framework code. This division complicates the programming model when it comes to any sort of customization or extension because such changes require working in code that’s external to the annotation. Moreover, debugging such code is tricky because you can’t set a breakpoint on an annotation.

Also, as Spring continues to grow in popularity, developers new to Spring from other languages and frameworks may find annotation-based Spring MVC (and WebFlux) quite unlike what they already know. As an alternative to WebFlux, Spring offers a functional programming model for defining reactive APIs.

This new programming model is used more like a library and less like a framework, letting you map requests to handler code without annotations. Writing an API using Spring’s functional programming model involves the following four primary types:

* _RequestPredicate_ —— Declares the kind(s) of requests that will be handled
* _RouteFunction_ —— Declares how a matching request should be routed to the
handler code
* _ServerRequest_ —— Represents an HTTP request, including access to header and
body information
* _ServerResponse_ —— Represents an HTTP response, including header and body
information

As a simple example that pulls all of these types together, consider the following HelloWorld example:

```java
package hello;

import static org.springframework.web
          .reactive.function.server.RequestPredicates.GET;
import static org.springframework.web
          .reactive.function.server.RouterFunctions.route;
import static org.springframework.web
          .reactive.function.server.ServerResponse.ok;
import static reactor.core.publisher.Mono.just;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;
import org.springframework.web.reactive.function.server.RouterFunction;

@Configuration
public class RouterFunctionConfig {

  @Bean
  public RouterFunction<?> helloRouterFunction() {
    return route(GET("/hello"),
      request -> ok().body(just("Hello World!"), String.class))
    ;
  }

}
```

The first thing to notice is that you’ve chosen to statically import a few helper classes that you can use to create the aforementioned functional types. You’ve also statically imported `Mono` to keep the rest of the code easier to read and understand.

In this `@Configuration` class, you have a single `@Bean` method of type `RouterFunction<?>`. As mentioned, a `RouterFunction` declares mappings between one or more `RequestPredicate` objects and the functions that will handle the matching request(s).

The `route()` method from RouterFunctions accepts two parameters: a `RequestPredicate` and a function to handle matching requests. In this case, the `GET()` method from `RequestPredicates` declares a `RequestPredicate` that matches HTTP `GET`` requests for the /hello path.

As for the handler function, it’s written as a lambda, although it can also be a method reference. Although it isn’t explicitly declared, the handler lambda accepts a `ServerRequest` as a parameter. It returns a `ServerResponse` using `ok()` from `ServerResponse` and `body()` from `BodyBuilder`, which was returned from `ok()`. This was done to create a response with an HTTP 200 (OK) status code and a body payload that says `"Hello World!"`

As written, the `helloRouterFunction()` method declares a `RouterFunction` that handles only a single kind of request. But if you need to handle a different kind of request, you don’t have to write another @Bean method, although you can. You only need to call `andRoute()` to declare another `RequestPredicate` to function mapping. For example, here’s how you might add another handler for `GET` requests for /bye:

```java
@Bean
public RouterFunction<?> helloRouterFunction() {
  return route(GET("/hello"),
    request -> ok().body(just("Hello World!"), String.class))
  .andRoute(GET("/bye"),
    request -> ok().body(just("See ya!"), String.class))
  ;
}
```

Hello World samples are fine for dipping your toes into something new. But let’s amp it up a bit and see how to use Spring’s functional web programming model to handle requests that resemble real-world scenarios.

To demonstrate how the functional programming model might be used in a realworld application, let’s reinvent the functionality of `TacoController` in the functional style. The following configuration class is a functional analog to `TacoController`:

```java
package tacos.web.api;

import static org.springframework.web.reactive.function.server.RequestPredicates.GET;
import static org.springframework.web.reactive.function.server.RequestPredicates.POST;
import static org.springframework.web.reactive.function.server.RequestPredicates.queryParam;
import static org.springframework.web.reactive.function.server.RouterFunctions.route;

import java.net.URI;

import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;
import org.springframework.web.reactive.function.server.RouterFunction;
import org.springframework.web.reactive.function.server.ServerRequest;
import org.springframework.web.reactive.function.server.ServerResponse;

import reactor.core.publisher.Mono;
import tacos.Taco;
import tacos.data.TacoRepository;

@Configuration
public class RouterFunctionConfig {

  @Autowired
  private TacoRepository tacoRepo;

  @Bean
  public RouterFunction<?> routerFunction() {
    return route(GET("/api/tacos").
          and(queryParam("recent", t->t != null )),
          this::recents)
        .andRoute(POST("/api/tacos"), this::postTaco);
  }

  public Mono<ServerResponse> recents(ServerRequest request) {
    return ServerResponse.ok()
          .body(tacoRepo.findAll().take(12), Taco.class);
  }

  public Mono<ServerResponse> postTaco(ServerRequest request) {
    return request.bodyToMono(Taco.class)
      .flatMap(taco -> tacoRepo.save(taco))
      .flatMap(savedTaco -> {
        return ServerResponse
          .created(URI.create(
            "http://localhost:8080/api/tacos/" +
            savedTaco.getId()))
          .body(savedTaco, Taco.class);
    });
  }
}
```

As you can see, the `routerFunction()` method declares a `RouterFunction<?>` bean, like the Hello World example. But it differs in what types of requests are handled and how they’re handled. In this case, the `RouterFunction` is created to handle `GET` requests for /api/tacos?recent and POST requests for /api/tacos.

What stands out even more is that the routes are handled by method references. Lambdas are great when the behavior behind a `RouterFunction` is relatively simple and brief. In many cases, however, it’s better to extract that functionality into a separate method (or even into a separate method in a separate class) to maintain code readability.

For your needs, `GET` requests for /api/tacos?recent will be handled by the `recents()` method. It uses the injected `TacoRepository` to fetch a `Flux<Taco>`, from which it takes 12 items. It then wraps the `Flux<Taco>` in a `Mono<ServerResponse>` so that we can ensure that the response has an HTTP 200 (OK) status by calling `ok()` on the `ServerResponse`. It’s important to understand that even though up to 12 tacos are returned, there is only one server response—that’s why it is returned in a `Mono` and not a `Flux`. Internally, Spring will still stream the `Flux<Taco>` to the client as a Flux.

Meanwhile, `POST` requests for /api/tacos are handled by the `postTaco()` method, which extracts a `Mono<Taco>` from the body of the incoming `ServerRequest`. The `postTaco()` method then uses a series of `flatMap()` operations to save that taco to the `TacoRepository` and create a `ServerResponse` with an HTTP 201 (CREATED) status code and the saved `Taco` object in the response body.

The `flatMap()` operations are used to ensure that at each step in the flow, the result of the mapping is wrapped in a `Mono`, starting with a `Mono<Taco>` after the first `flatMap()` and ultimately ending with a `Mono<ServerResponse>` that is returned from `postTaco()`.

