### 6.3.3 Conditionally creating beans with profiles

Sometimes it’s useful to provide a unique set of beans for different profiles. Normally, any bean declared in a Java configuration class is created, regardless of which profile is active. But suppose you need some beans to be created only if a certain profile is active. In that case, the `@Profile` annotation can designate beans as being applicable to only a given profile.

For instance, suppose you have a `CommandLineRunner` bean declared in `TacoCloudApplication` that’s used to load the embedded database with ingredient data when the application starts. That’s great for development but would be unnecessary (and undesirable) in a production application. To prevent the ingredient data from being loaded every time the application starts in a production deployment, you could annotate the `CommandLineRunner` bean method with `@Profile` like this:

```java
@Bean
@Profile("dev")
public CommandLineRunner dataLoader(IngredientRepository repo,
      UserRepository userRepo, PasswordEncoder encoder) {

...

}
```

Or suppose that you need the `CommandLineRunner` created if either the dev profile or qa profile is active. In that case, you can list the profiles for which the bean should be created like so:

```java
@Bean
@Profile({"dev", "qa"})
public CommandLineRunner dataLoader(IngredientRepository repo,
      UserRepository userRepo, PasswordEncoder encoder) {

...

}
```

Now the ingredient data will be loaded only if the `dev` or `qa` profiles are active. That would mean that you’d need to activate the dev profile when running the application in the development environment. It would be even more convenient if that `CommandLineRunner` bean were always created unless the prod profile is active. In that case, you can apply `@Profile` like this:

```java
@Bean
@Profile("!prod")
public CommandLineRunner dataLoader(IngredientRepository repo,
      UserRepository userRepo, PasswordEncoder encoder) {

...

}
```

Here, the exclamation mark (!) negates the profile name. Effectively, it states that the `CommandLineRunner` bean will be created if the prod profile isn’t active.

It’s also possible to use `@Profile` on an entire `@Configuration`-annotated class. For example, suppose that you were to extract the `CommandLineRunner` bean into a separate configuration class named `DevelopmentConfig`. Then you could annotate `DevelopmentConfig` with `@Profile` as follows:

```java
@Profile({"!prod", "!qa"})
@Configuration
public class DevelopmentConfig {

  @Bean
  public CommandLineRunner dataLoader(IngredientRepository repo,
        UserRepository userRepo, PasswordEncoder encoder) {

  ...
  
  }

}
```

Here, the `CommandLineRunner` bean (as well as any other beans defined in `DevelopmentConfig`) will be created only if neither the `prod` nor `qa` profile is active.


