### 14.2.2 Handling request-stream messaging

Not all interactions feature a single request and a single response. In a stock quote scenario, for example, it may be useful to request a stream of stock quotes for a given stock symbol. In a request-response model, the client would need to repeatedly poll for the current stock price. But in a request-stream model, the client need ask for the stock price only once and then subscribe to a stream of periodic updates.

To illustrate the request-stream model, let’s implement the server and client for the stock quote scenario. First, we’ll need to define an object that can carry the stock quote information. The `StockQuote` class in the next listing will serve this purpose.

**Listing 14.4 A model class representing a stock quote**
```java
package rsocket;
import java.math.BigDecimal;
import java.time.Instant;

import lombok.AllArgsConstructor;
import lombok.Data;

@Data
@AllArgsConstructor
public class StockQuote {
    private String symbol;
    private BigDecimal price;
    private Instant timestamp;
}
```

As you can see, a `StockQuote` carries the stock symbol, the price, and a timestamp that the price was valid. For brevity’s sake, we’re using Lombok to help with constructors and accessor methods.

Now let’s write a controller to handle requests for stock quotes. You’ll find that the `StockQuoteController` in the next snippet is quite similar to the `GreetingController` from the previous section.


**Listing 14.5 An RSocket controller to stream stock quotes**
```java
package rsocket;
import java.math.BigDecimal;
import java.time.Duration;
import java.time.Instant;

import org.springframework.messaging.handler.annotation.DestinationVariable;
import org.springframework.messaging.handler.annotation.MessageMapping;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Controller;

import reactor.core.publisher.Flux;

@Controller
public class StockQuoteController {
  
  @MessageMapping("stock/{symbol}")
  public Flux<StockQuote> getStockPrice(
      @DestinationVariable("symbol") String symbol) {
    return Flux
      .interval(Duration.ofSeconds(1))
      .map(i -> {
        BigDecimal price = BigDecimal.valueOf(Math.random() * 10);
      return new StockQuote(symbol, price, Instant.now());
    });
  }
}
```

Here, the `getStockPrice()` method handles incoming requests on the `"stock/{symbol}"` route, accepting the stock symbol from the route with the `@DestinationVariable` annotation. For simplicity’s sake, rather than look up actual stock prices, the price is calculated as a random value (which may or may not accurately model the volatility of some actual stocks).

What’s most notable about `getStockPrice()`, however, is that it returns a `Flux<StockQuote>` instead of a `Mono<StockQuote>`. This is a clue to Spring that this handler method supports the request-stream model. Internally, the `Flux` is created initially as an interval that fires every one second, but that `Flux` is mapped to another `Flux` that produces the random `StockQuote`. Put simply, a single request handled by the `getStockPrice()` method returns multiple values, once every second.

A client of a request-stream service is similar to one for a request-response service. The only key difference is that instead of calling `retrieveMono()` on the requester, it should call `retreiveFlux()`. The client of the stock quote service might look like this:

```java
String stockSymbol = "XYZ";

RSocketRequester tcp = requesterBuilder.tcp("localhost", 7000);
tcp
  .route("stock/{symbol}", stockSymbol)
  .retrieveFlux(StockQuote.class)
  .doOnNext(stockQuote -> {
    log.info(
        "Price of " + stockQuote.getSymbol() +
        " : " + stockQuote.getPrice() +
        " (at " + stockQuote.getTimestamp() + ")");
  })
  .subscribe();
```

At this point, we’ve seen how to create RSocket servers and clients that handle single and multiple responses. But what if the server doesn’t have a response to send or the client doesn’t need a response? Let’s see how to deal with the fire-and-forget communication model.