### 6.2.1 Defining configuration property holders

There’s nothing that says `@ConfigurationProperties` must be set on a controller or any other specific kind of bean. `@ConfigurationProperties` are in fact often placed on beans whose sole purpose in the application is to be holders of configuration data. This keeps configuration-specific details out of the controllers and other application classes. It also makes it easy to share common configuration properties among several beans that may make use of that information.

In the case of the `pageSize` property in `OrderController`, you could extract it to a separate class. The following listing uses the `OrderProps` class in such a way.

**Listing 6.2 Extracting pageSize to a holder class**

```java
package tacos.web;
import org.springframework.boot.context.properties.
                    ConfigurationProperties;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;
import lombok.Data;

@Component
@ConfigurationProperties(prefix="taco.orders")
@Data
public class OrderProps {

  private int pageSize = 20;

}
```

As you did with `OrderController`, the `pageSize` property defaults to `20`, and `OrderProps` is annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties` to have a prefix of `taco.orders`. It’s also annotated with `@Component` so that Spring component scanning will automatically discover it and create it as a bean in the Spring application context. This is important, because the next step is to inject the `OrderProps` bean into `OrderController`.

There’s nothing particularly special about configuration property holders. They’re beans that have their properties injected from the Spring environment. They can be injected into any other bean that needs those properties. For `OrderController`, this means removing the `pageSize` property from `OrderController` and instead injecting and using the `OrderProps` bean, as shown next:

```java
private OrderProps props;

public OrderController(OrderRepository orderRepo,
          OrderProps props) {
  this.orderRepo = orderRepo;
  this.props = props;
}

...

@GetMapping
public String ordersForUser(
      @AuthenticationPrincipal User user, Model model) {

  Pageable pageable = PageRequest.of(0, props.getPageSize());
  model.addAttribute("orders",
      orderRepo.findByUserOrderByPlacedAtDesc(user, pageable));

  return "orderList";
}
```

Now `OrderController` is no longer responsible for handling its own configuration properties. This keeps the code in `OrderController` slightly neater and allows you to reuse the properties in `OrderProps` in any other bean that may need them. Moreover, you’re collecting configuration properties that pertain to orders in one place: the `OrderProps` class. If you need to add, remove, rename, or otherwise change the properties therein, you need to apply those changes only in `OrderProps`. And for testing purposes, it’s easy to set configuration properties directly on a test-specific `OrderProps` and give it to the controller prior to the test.

For example, let’s pretend that you’re using the `pageSize` property in several other beans when you decide it would be best to apply some validation to that property to limit its values to no less than 5 and no more than `25`. Without a holder bean, you’d have to apply validation annotations to `OrderController`, the `pageSize` property, and all other classes using that property. But because you’ve extracted `pageSize` into `OrderProps`, you only must make the changes to `OrderProps`, as shown here:

```java
package tacos.web;
import javax.validation.constraints.Max;
import javax.validation.constraints.Min;

import org.springframework.boot.context.properties.
                ConfigurationProperties;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;
import org.springframework.validation.annotation.Validated;

import lombok.Data;

@Component
@ConfigurationProperties(prefix="taco.orders")
@Data
@Validated
public class OrderProps {

  @Min(value=5, message="must be between 5 and 25")
  @Max(value=25, message="must be between 5 and 25")
  private int pageSize = 20;

}
```

Although you could as easily apply the `@Validated`, `@Min`, and `@Max` annotations to `OrderController` (and any other beans that can be injected with `OrderProps`), it would just clutter up `OrderController` that much more. With a configuration property holder bean, you’ve collected configuration property specifics in one place, leaving the classes that need those properties relatively clean.


