### 13.1.3 Testing R2DBC Repository

Spring Data R2DBC includes support for writing integration tests for R2DBC repositories. Specifically, the `@DataR2dbcTest` annotation, when placed on a test class, causes Spring to create an application context with the generated Spring Data R2DBC repositories as beans that can be injected into the test class. Along with `StepVerifier`, which we’ve used in previous chapters, this enables us to write automated tests against all of the repositories we’ve created.

For the sake of brevity, we’ll focus solely on a single test class: `IngredientRepositoryTest`. This will test `IngredientRepository`, verifying that it can save `Ingredient` objects, fetch a single `Ingredient`, and fetch all saved `Ingredient` objects. The next code sample shows this test class.

**Listing 13.7 Testing a Spring Data R2DBC repository**

```java
package tacos.data;

import static org.assertj.core.api.Assertions.assertThat;

import java.util.ArrayList;

import org.junit.jupiter.api.BeforeEach;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.boot.test.autoconfigure.data.r2dbc.DataR2dbcTest;

import reactor.core.publisher.Flux;
import reactor.test.StepVerifier;
import tacos.Ingredient;
import tacos.Ingredient.Type;

@DataR2dbcTest
public class IngredientRepositoryTest {

  @Autowired
  IngredientRepository ingredientRepo;

  @BeforeEach
  public void setup() {
    Flux<Ingredient> deleteAndInsert = ingredientRepo.deleteAll()
      .thenMany(ingredientRepo.saveAll(
      Flux.just(
        new Ingredient("FLTO", "Flour Tortilla", Type.WRAP),
        new Ingredient("GRBF", "Ground Beef", Type.PROTEIN),
        new Ingredient("CHED", "Cheddar Cheese", Type.CHEESE)
      )));
    StepVerifier.create(deleteAndInsert)
          .expectNextCount(3)
          .verifyComplete();
  }

  @Test
  public void shouldSaveAndFetchIngredients() {

    StepVerifier.create(ingredientRepo.findAll())
      .recordWith(ArrayList::new)
      .thenConsumeWhile(x -> true)
      .consumeRecordedWith(ingredients -> {
        assertThat(ingredients).hasSize(3);
        assertThat(ingredients).contains(
          new Ingredient("FLTO", "Flour Tortilla", Type.WRAP));
        assertThat(ingredients).contains(
          new Ingredient("GRBF", "Ground Beef", Type.PROTEIN));
        assertThat(ingredients).contains(
          new Ingredient("CHED", "Cheddar Cheese", Type.CHEESE));
      })
      .verifyComplete();

    StepVerifier.create(ingredientRepo.findBySlug("FLTO"))
      .assertNext(ingredient -> {
        ingredient.equals(new Ingredient("FLTO", "Flour Tortilla", Type.WRAP));
    });
  }

}
```

The `shouldSaveAndFetchIngredients()` method starts by creating a Flux of test `Ingredient` objects. From this `Flux`, it uses the `flatMap()` operation to save each `Ingredient` via the `save()` method on the injected `IngredientRepository`. The call to `subscribe()` opens the flow of data through the `Flux`, resulting in the Ingredient objects being saved.

Next up, a `StepVerifier` is created from the `Mono<Ingredient>` returned by the repository’s `findBySlug()` method. The `Mono<Ingredient>` should have a single `Ingredient` in it, which is what the `assertNext()` method verifies, matching it up with the values expected for an `Ingredient` whose slug is `"FLTO"`. Then, it verifies that the `Mono` is complete.

Finally, another `StepVerifier` is created from the `Flux<Ingredient>` returned by the repository’s `findAll()` method. One at a time, it asserts that each `Ingredient` that flows from that Flux matches up with the three `Ingredient` objects originally saved at the start of the test method. And, as with the other `StepVerifier`, a call to `verifyComplete()` verifies that the `Mono` is complete and has no more `Ingredient` objects coming through.

Although we focused only on testing the `IngredientRepository`, the same techniques can be used to test any Spring Data R2BDC–generated repository.

So far, so good. We now have defined our domain types and their respective repositories. And we’ve written a test to verify that they work. We can use them as is if we like. But these repositories make persistence of a `TacoOrder` inconvenient in that we must first create and persist `Taco` objects that are part of that order and then persist the `TacoOrder` object that references the child `Taco` objects. And when reading the `TacoOrder`, we’ll receive only a collection of `Taco` IDs and not fully defined `Taco` objects.

It would be nice if we could persist `TacoOrder` as an aggregate root and have its child `Taco` objects be persisted along with it. Likewise, it would be great if we could fetch a `TacoOrder` and have it fully defined with complete Taco objects and not just the IDs. Let’s define a service-level class that sits in front of `OrderRepository` and `TacoRepository` to mimic the persistence behavior of chapter 3’s `OrderRepository`.
