### 12.5.2 Configuring a reactive user details service

When extending `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter`, you override one `configure()` method to declare web security rules and another `configure()` method to configure authentication logic, typically by defining a `UserDetails` object. As a reminder of what this looks like, consider the following overridden `configure()` method that uses an injected `UserRepository` object in an anonymous implementation of `UserDetailsService` to look up a user by username:

```java
@Autowired
UserRepository userRepo;

@Override
protected void
    configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder auth)
    throws Exception {
  auth
    .userDetailsService(new UserDetailsService() {
      @Override
      public UserDetails loadUserByUsername(String username)
                        throws UsernameNotFoundException {
        User user = userRepo.findByUsername(username)
        if (user == null) {
          throw new UsernameNotFoundException(
                  username " + not found")
        }
        return user.toUserDetails();
      }
  });
}
```

In this nonreactive configuration, you override the only method required by `UserDetailsService`: `loadUserByUsername()`. Inside of that method, you use the given `UserRepository` to look up the user by the given username. If the name isn’t found, you throw a `UsernameNotFoundException`. But if it’s found, then you call a helper method, `toUserDetails()`, to return the resulting `UserDetails` object.

In a reactive security configuration, you don’t override a `configure()` method. Instead, you declare a `ReactiveUserDetailsService` bean. `ReactiveUserDetailsService` is the reactive equivalent to `UserDetailsService`. Like `UserDetailsService`, `ReactiveUserDetailsService` requires implementation of only a single method. Specifically, the `findByUsername()` method returns a `Mono<UserDetails>` instead of a raw `UserDetails` object.

In the following example, the `ReactiveUserDetailsService` bean is declared to use a given `UserRepository`, which is presumed to be a reactive Spring Data repository (which we’ll talk more about in the next chapter):

```java
@Service
@Bean
public ReactiveUserDetailsService userDetailsService(
                    UserRepository userRepo) {
  return new ReactiveUserDetailsService() {
    @Override
    public Mono<UserDetails> findByUsername(String username) {
      return userRepo.findByUsername(username)
        .map(user -> {
          return user.toUserDetails();
        });
    }
  };
}
```

Here, a `Mono<UserDetails>` is returned as required, but the `UserRepository.findByUsername()` method returns a `Mono<User>`. Because it’s a `Mono`, you can chain operations on it, such as a `map()` operation to map the `Mono<User>` to a `Mono<UserDetails>`.

In this case, the `map()` operation is applied with a lambda that calls the helper `toUserDetails()` method on the `User` object published by the `Mono`. This converts the `User` to a `UserDetails`. As a consequence, the `.map()` operation returns a `Mono<UserDetails>`, which is precisely what the `ReactiveUserDetailsService.findByUsername()` requires. If `findByUsername()` can’t find a matching user, then the `Mono` returned will be empty, indicating no match and resulting in a failure to authenticate.


