### 12.4.1 GETting resources

As an example of `WebClient` usage, suppose that you need to fetch an `Ingredient` object by its ID from the Taco Cloud API. Using `RestTemplate`, you might use the `getForObject()` method. But with `WebClient`, you build the request, retrieve a response, and then extract a `Mono` that publishes the `Ingredient` object, as shown here:

```java
Mono<Ingredient> ingredient = WebClient.create()
  .get()
  .uri("http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}", ingredientId)
  .retrieve()
  .bodyToMono(Ingredient.class);
  
ingredient.subscribe(i -> { ... });
```

Here you create a new WebClient instance with `create()`. Then you use `get()` and `uri()` to define a `GET` request to http://localhost:8080/ingredients/{id}, where the {id} placeholder will be replaced by the value in `ingredientId`. The `retrieve()` method executes the request. Finally, a call to `bodyToMono()` extracts the response’s body payload into a `Mono<Ingredient>` on which you can continue applying additional `Mono` operations.

To apply additional operations on the Mono returned from `bodyToMono()`, it’s important to subscribe to it before the request will even be sent. Making requests that can return a collection of values is easy. For example, the following snippet of code fetches all ingredients:

```java
Flux<Ingredient> ingredients = WebClient.create()
  .get()
  .uri("http://localhost:8080/ingredients")
  .retrieve()
  .bodyToFlux(Ingredient.class);
ingredients.subscribe(i -> { ... });
```

For the most part, fetching multiple items is the same as making a request for a single item. The big difference is that instead of using `bodyToMono()` to extract the response’s body into a `Mono`, you use `bodyToFlux()` to extract it into a `Flux`.

As with `bodyToMono()`, the `Flux` returned from `bodyToFlux()` hasn’t yet been subscribed to. This allows additional operations (filters, maps, and so forth) to be applied to the `Flux` before the data starts flowing through it. Therefore, it’s important to subscribe to the resulting `Flux`, or else the request will never even be sent.

#### MAKING REQUESTS WITH A BASE URI

You may find yourself using a common base URI for many different requests. In that case, it can be useful to create a `WebClient` bean with a base URI and inject it anywhere it’s needed. Such a bean could be declared like this (in any `@Configurationannotated` class):

```java
@Bean
public WebClient webClient() {
  return WebClient.create("http://localhost:8080");
}
```

Then, anywhere you need to make requests using that base URI, the `WebClient` bean can be injected and used like this:

```java
@Autowired
WebClient webClient;
public Mono<Ingredient> getIngredientById(String ingredientId) {
  Mono<Ingredient> ingredient = webClient
    .get()
    .uri("/ingredients/{id}", ingredientId)
    .retrieve()
    .bodyToMono(Ingredient.class);

  ingredient.subscribe(i -> { ... });
}
```

Because the WebClient had already been created, you’re able to get right to work by
calling `get()`. As for the URI, you need to specify only the path relative to the base
URI when calling `uri()`.

#### TIMING OUT ON LONG-RUNNING REQUESTS

One thing that you can count on is that networks aren’t always reliable or as fast as you’d expect them to be. Or maybe a remote server is sluggish in handling a request. Ideally, a request to a remote service will return in a reasonable amount of time. But if not, it would be great if the client didn’t get stuck waiting on a response for too long.

To avoid having your client requests held up by a sluggish network or service, you can use the `timeout()` method from `Flux` or `Mono` to put a limit on how long you’ll wait for data to be published. As an example, consider how you might use `timeout()` when fetching ingredient data, as shown in the next code sample:

```java
Flux<Ingredient> ingredients = webclient
  .get()
  .uri("/ingredients")
  .retrieve()
  .bodyToFlux(Ingredient.class);

ingredients
  .timeout(Duration.ofSeconds(1))
  .subscribe(
    i -> { ... },
    e -> {
    //handle timeout error
  });
```

As you can see, before subscribing to the `Flux`, you called `timeout()`, specifying a duration of 1 second. If the request can be fulfilled in less than 1 second, then there’s no problem. But if the request is taking longer than 1 second, it’ll time-out, and the error handler given as the second parameter to `subscribe()` is invoked。

