### 6.1.4 Configuring logging

Most applications provide some form of logging. And even if your application doesn’t log anything directly, the libraries that your application uses will certainly log their activity.

By default, Spring Boot configures logging via Logback [http://logback.qos.ch](http://logback.qos.ch) to write to the console at an INFO level. You’ve probably already seen plenty of INFO-level entries in the application logs as you’ve run the application and other examples. But as a reminder, here’s a logging sample showing the default log format (wrapped to fit within the page margins):

```text
2021-07-29 17:24:24.187 INFO 52240 --- [nio-8080-exec-1] com.example.demo.Hello
                                Here's a log entry.
2021-07-29 17:24:24.187 INFO 52240 --- [nio-8080-exec-1] com.example.demo.Hello
                                Here's another log entry.
2021-07-29 17:24:24.187 INFO 52240 --- [nio-8080-exec-1] com.example.demo.Hello
                                And here's one more.
```

For full control over the logging configuration, you can create a logback.xml file at the root of the classpath (in src/main/resources). Here’s an example of a simple logback.xml file you might use:

```xml
<configuration>
  <appender name="STDOUT" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
    <encoder>
      <pattern>
        %d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n
      </pattern>
    </encoder>
  </appender>
  <logger name="root" level="INFO"/>
  <root level="INFO">
    <appender-ref ref="STDOUT" />
  </root>
</configuration>
```

With this new configuration, the same sample log entries from earlier might look like this (wrapped to fit in the page margins):

```text
17:25:09.088 [http-nio-8080-exec-1] INFO com.example.demo.Hello
- Here's a log entry.
17:25:09.088 [http-nio-8080-exec-1] INFO com.example.demo.Hello
- Here's another log entry.
17:25:09.088 [http-nio-8080-exec-1] INFO com.example.demo.Hello
- And here's one more.
```

Aside from the pattern used for logging, this Logback configuration is more or less equivalent to the default you’ll get if you have no logback.xml file. But by editing logback.xml, you can gain full control over your application’s log files.

> **NOTE**：The specifics of what can go into logback.xml are outside the scope of this book. Refer to Logback’s documentation for more information.

The most common changes you’ll make to a logging configuration are to change the logging levels and perhaps to specify a file where the logs should be written. With Spring Boot configuration properties, you can make those changes without having to create a logback.xml file.

To set the logging levels, you create properties that are prefixed with `logging.level`, followed by the name of the logger for which you want to set the logging level. For instance, suppose you’d like to set the root logging level to `WARN`, but log Spring Security logs at a `DEBUG` level. The following entries in application.yml will take care of that for you:

```yaml
logging:
  level:
    root: WARN
    org:
      springframework:
      security: DEBUG
```

Optionally, you can collapse the Spring Security package name to a single line for easier reading as follows:

```yaml
logging:
  level:
    root: WARN
    org.springframework.security: DEBUG
```

Now suppose that you want to write the log entries to the file TacoCloud.log at /var/logs/. The `logging.file.path` and `logging.file.name` properties can help achieve that, as shown next:

```yaml
logging:
  file:
    path: /var/logs/
    name: TacoCloud.log
  level:
    root: WARN
    org:
      springframework:
        security: DEBUG
```

Assuming that the application has write permissions to /var/logs/, the log entries will be written to /var/logs/TacoCloud.log. By default, the log files rotate once they reach 10 MB in size.


