### 12.5.1 Configuring reactive web security

As a reminder, configuring Spring Security to secure a Spring MVC web application typically involves creating a new configuration class that extends `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter` and is annotated with `@EnableWebSecurity`. Such a configuration class would override a `configuration()` method to specify web security specifics such as what authorizations are required for certain request paths. The following simple Spring Security configuration class serves as a reminder of how to configure security for a nonreactive Spring MVC application:

```java
@Configuration
@EnableWebSecurity
public class SecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

  @Override
  protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
    http
      .authorizeRequests()
        .antMatchers("/api/tacos", "/orders").hasAuthority("USER")
        .antMatchers("/**").permitAll();
  }

}
```

Now let’s see what this same configuration might look like for a reactive Spring WebFlux application. The following listing shows a reactive security configuration class that’s roughly equivalent to the simple security configuration from before.

**Listing 121.2 Configuring Spring Security for a Spring WebFlux application**
```java
@Configuration
@EnableWebFluxSecurity
public class SecurityConfig {

@Bean
public SecurityWebFilterChain securityWebFilterChain(
                        ServerHttpSecurity http) {
  return http
    .authorizeExchange()
      .pathMatchers("/api/tacos", "/orders").hasAuthority("USER")
      .anyExchange().permitAll()
    .and()
      .build();
  }

}
```

As you can see, there’s a lot that’s familiar, though, at the same time, much is different. Rather than `@EnableWebSecurity`, this new configuration class is annotated with `@EnableWebFluxSecurity`. What’s more, the configuration class doesn’t extend `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter` or any other base class whatsoever. Therefore, it also doesn’t override any `configure()` methods.

In place of a `configure()` method, you declare a bean of type `SecurityWebFilterChain` with the `securityWebFilterChain()` method. The body of `securityWebFilterChain()` isn’t much different from the previous configuration’s `configure()` method, but there are some subtle changes.

Primarily, the configuration is declared using a given `ServerHttpSecurity` object instead of an `HttpSecurity` object. Using the given `ServerHttpSecurity`, you can call `authorizeExchange()`, which is roughly equivalent to `authorizeRequests()`, to declare request-level security.

> NOTE：ServerHttpSecurity is new to Spring Security 5 and is the reactive analog to `HttpSecurity`.

When matching paths, you can still use Ant-style wildcard paths, but do so with the `pathMatchers()` method instead of antMatchers(). And as a convenience, you no longer need to specify a catchall Ant-style path of /** because the `anyExchange()` returns the catchall you need.

Finally, because you’re declaring the `SecurityWebFilterChain` as a bean instead of overriding a framework method, you must call the `build()` method to assemble all of the security rules into the `SecurityWebFilterChain` to be returned.

Aside from those small differences, configuring web security isn’t that different for Spring WebFlux than for Spring MVC. But what about user details?

