### 13.1.2 Defining reactive repositories 

In chapters 3 and 4, we defined our repositories as interfaces that extend Spring Data’s `CrudRepository` interface. But that base repository interface dealt with singular objects and Iterable collections. In contrast, we’d expect that a reactive repository would deal in `Mono` and `Flux` objects.

That’s why Spring Data offers `ReactiveCrudRepository` for defining reactive repositories. `ReactiveCrudRepository` operates very much like `CrudRepository`. To create a repository, define an interface that extends `ReactiveCrudRepository`, such as this:

```java
package tacos.data;

import org.springframework.data.repository.reactive.ReactiveCrudRepository;

import tacos.TacoOrder;

public interface OrderRepository
      extends ReactiveCrudRepository<TacoOrder, Long> {
}
```

On the surface, the only difference between this `OrderRepository` and the ones we defined in chapters 3 and 4 is that it extends `ReactiveCrudRepository` instead of `CrudRepository`. But what’s significantly different is that its methods return `Mono` and `Flux` types instead of a single `TacoOrder` or `Iterable<TacoOrder>`. Two examples include the `findById()` method, which returns a `Mono<TacoOrder>`, and `findAll()`, which returns a `Flux<TacoOrder>`.

To see how this reactive repository might work in action, suppose that you want to fetch all `TacoOrder` objects and print their delivery names to standard output. In that case, you might write some code like the next snippet.

**Listing 13.4 Calling a reactive repository method**

```java
@Autowired
OrderRepository orderRepo;

...

orderRepository.findAll()
  .doOnNext(order -> {
    System.out.println(
      "Deliver to: " + order.getDeliveryName());
    })
  .subscribe();
```

Here, the call to `findAll()` returns a `Flux<TacoOrder>` on which we have added a `doOnNext()` to print the delivery name. Finally, the call to `subscribe()` kicks off the flow of data through the `Flux`.

In the Spring Data JDBC example from chapter 3, `TacoOrder` was the aggregate root, with `Taco` being a child in that aggregate. Therefore, `Taco` objects were persisted as part of a `TacoOrder`, and there was no need to define a repository dedicated to `Taco` persistence. But Spring Data R2DBC doesn’t support proper aggregate roots this way, so we’ll need a `TacoRepository` through which `Taco` objects are persisted. See the next listing for such a repository.

**Listing 13.5 Persisting Taco objects with a reactive repository**

```java
package tacos.data;

import org.springframework.data.repository.reactive.ReactiveCrudRepository;
import tacos.Taco;

public interface TacoRepository
      extends ReactiveCrudRepository<Taco, Long> {
}
```

As you can see, `TacoRepository` isn’t much different from `OrderRepository`. It extends `ReactiveCrudRepository` to give us reactive types when working with `Taco` persistence. There aren’t many surprises here.

On the other hand, `IngredientRepository` is slightly more interesting, as shown next.

**Listing 13.6 Persisting Ingredient objects with a reactive repository**

```java
package tacos.data;

import org.springframework.data.repository.reactive.ReactiveCrudRepository;

import reactor.core.publisher.Mono;
import tacos.Ingredient;

public interface IngredientRepository
      extends ReactiveCrudRepository<Ingredient, Long> {

  Mono<Ingredient> findBySlug(String slug);

}
```

As with our other two reactive repositories, `IngredientRepository` extends `ReactiveCrudRepository`. But because we might need a way to look up `Ingredient` objects based on a slug value, `IngredientRepository` includes a `findBySlug()` method that returns a `Mono<Ingredient>`.

Now let’s see how to write tests to verify that our repositories work.



