### 15.3.2 Defining custom health indicators

Spring Boot comes with several out-of-the-box health indicators that provide health information for many common external systems that a Spring application may integrate with. But at some point, you may find that you’re interacting with some external system that Spring Boot neither anticipated nor provided a health indicator for.

For instance, your application may integrate with a legacy mainframe application, and the health of your application may be affected by the health of the legacy system. To create a custom health indicator, all you need to do is create a bean that implements the `HealthIndicator` interface.

As it turns out, the Taco Cloud services have no need for a custom health indicator, because the ones provided by Spring Boot are more than sufficient. But to demonstrate how you can develop a custom health indicator, consider the next listing, which shows a simple implementation of `HealthIndicator` in which health is determined somewhat randomly by the time of day.

**Listing 15.5 An unusual implementation of HealthIndicator**

```java
package tacos.tacos;
import java.util.Calendar;
import org.springframework.boot.actuate.health.Health;
import org.springframework.boot.actuate.health.HealthIndicator;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;
@Component
public class WackoHealthIndicator implements HealthIndicator {
@Override
  public Health health() {
    int hour = Calendar.getInstance().get(Calendar.HOUR_OF_DAY);
    if (hour > 12) {
        return Health
            .outOfService()
            .withDetail("reason",
                "I'm out of service after lunchtime")
            .withDetail("hour", hour)
            .build();
    }
    if (Math.random() < 0.1) {
        return Health
            .down()
            .withDetail("reason", "I break 10% of the time")
            .build();
    }
    return Health
        .up()
        .withDetail("reason", "All is good!")
        .build();
  }
}
```

This crazy health indicator first checks what the current time is, and if it’s after noon, returns a health status of `OUT\_OF\_SERVICE`, with a few details explaining the reason for that status. Even if it’s before lunch, there’s a 10% chance that the health indicator will report a `DOWN` status, because it uses a random number to decide whether or not it’s up. If the random number is less than 0.1, the status will be reported as `DOWN`. Otherwise, the status will be `UP`.

Obviously, the health indicator in listing 15.5 isn’t going to be very useful in any real-world applications. But imagine that instead of consulting the current time or a random number, it were to make a remote call to some external system and determine the status based on the response it receives. In that case, it would be a very useful health indicator.
