### 2.3.2 Performing validation at form binding

Now that you’ve declared how a `Taco` and `TacoOrder` should be validated, we need to revisit each of the controllers, specifying that validation should be performed when the forms are `POST`ed to their respective handler methods.

To validate a submitted `Taco`, you need to add the JavaBean Validation API’s `@Valid` annotation to the `Taco` argument of the `DesignTacoController’s processTaco()` method, as shown next.

**Listing 2.13 Validating a POSTed Taco**

```java
import javax.validation.Valid;
import org.springframework.validation.Errors;

...

  @PostMapping
  public String processTaco(@Valid @ModelAttribute("taco") Taco taco, Errors errors) {
    if (errors.hasErrors()) {
      return "design";
    }
    // Save the taco...
    // We'll do this in chapter 3
    log.info("Processing taco: " + taco);

    return "redirect:/orders/current";
  }
```

The `@Valid` annotation tells Spring MVC to perform validation on the submitted `Taco` object after it’s bound to the submitted form data and before the `processTaco()` method is called. If there are any validation errors, the details of those errors will be captured in an `Errors` object that’s passed into `processTaco()`. The first few lines of `processTaco()` consult the `Errors` object, asking its `hasErrors()` method if there are any validation errors. If there are, the method concludes without processing the `Taco` and returns the `"design"` view name so that the form is redisplayed.

To perform validation on submitted `TacoOrder` objects, similar changes are also required in the `processOrder()` method of `OrderController`, as shown in the next code listing.

**Listing 2.14 Validating a POSTed TacoOrder**
```java
@PostMapping
public String processOrder(@Valid TacoOrder order, Errors errors) {
  if (errors.hasErrors()) {
    return "orderForm";
  }

  log.info("Order submitted: " + order);
  return "redirect:/";
}
```

In both cases, the method will be allowed to process the submitted data if there are no validation errors. If there are validation errors, the request will be forwarded to the form view to give the user a chance to correct their mistakes.

But how will the user know what mistakes require correction? Unless you call out the errors on the form, the user will be left guessing about how to successfully submit the form.


